Add monorepo setup recipe tailored for Ignite (#173)
infinitered/ignite-cookbook: docs/recipes/SettingUpYarnMonorepo.md

  "private": true,
  "workspaces": [
    "apps/*",
    "packages/*"
  ]
  // success-line-end
}
```

:::info

We recommend organizing your monorepo's folder structure in a way that best suits the needs of your project. While this guide suggests using `apps/` and `packages/`, you can rename or add directories like, for example, `services/` or `libs/` to fit your workflow.

The key here is to keep your monorepo clear and organized, ensuring that it’s easy to manage and navigate for you and your team 🤜🏻.

:::

3. Create directory structure:

```shell
mkdir apps packages
```

## Step 2: Create mobile app using Ignite

[Ignite](https://github.com/infinitered/ignite) is Infinite's Red battle-tested React Native boilerplate. We're proud to say we use it every time we start a new project.

In this step we'll take advantage of Ignite's CLI and create a React Native app within the monorepo.

1. Install the [Ignite CLI](https://www.npmjs.com/package/ignite-cli) (if you haven't already):

```shell
npx ignite-cli@latest
```

2. Generate a new app:
   Navigate to the `apps/` directory and run the following command to create a new app:

```shell
cd apps
npx ignite-cli new mobile
```

> We recommned the following answers to the CLI prompts:

Reviewer: ```suggestion
We recommend the following answers to the CLI prompts:
```

// error-line
const config = getDefaultConfig(__dirname);
// success-line
const config = getDefaultConfig(projectRoot);

config.transformer.getTransformOptions = async () => ({
  transform: {
    // Inline requires are very useful for deferring loading of large dependencies/components.
    // For example, we use it in app.tsx to conditionally load Reactotron.
    // However, this comes with some gotchas.
    // Read more here: https://reactnative.dev/docs/optimizing-javascript-loading
    // And here: https://github.com/expo/expo/issues/27279#issuecomment-1971610698
    inlineRequires: true,
  },
});

// success-line-start
// 1. Watch all files within the monorepo
config.watchFolders = [monorepoRoot];
// 2. Let Metro know where to resolve packages and in what order
config.resolver.nodeModulesPaths = [
  path.resolve(projectRoot, 'node_modules'),
  path.resolve(monorepoRoot, 'node_modules'),
];
// success-line-end

// This helps support certain popular third-party libraries
// such as Firebase that use the extension cjs.
config.resolver.sourceExts.push("cjs")

module.exports = config;
```

Awesome! We have our mobile app created ⭐️.

## Step 3: Install dependencies

> Let's make sure all of our dependendencies are installed for the mobile app.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
Let's make sure all of our dependencies are installed for the mobile app.
```

1. Run `yarn` at the root of the project:

```shell
cd ..
yarn install
```

## Step 4: Add a shared ESLint configuration with TypeScript

Maintaining consistent code quality across TypeScript and JavaScript projects within a monorepo is crucial for a project's long-term success.

**A good first step we recommend is to share a single ESLint configuration file between apps to ensure consistency and streamline the development process.**

> Let's go ahead and create a shared utility for that purpose.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
Let's create a shared utility for that purpose.
```

      "@typescript-eslint/no-object-literal-type-assertion": 0,
      "@typescript-eslint/no-var-requires": 0,
      "@typescript-eslint/no-unused-vars": [
        "error",
        {
          "argsIgnorePattern": "^_",
          "varsIgnorePattern": "^_"
        }
      ],
      "comma-dangle": 0,
      "multiline-ternary": 0,
      "no-undef": 0,
      "no-unused-vars": 0,
      "no-use-before-define": 0,
      "no-global-assign": 0,
      "quotes": 0,
      "react-native/no-raw-text": 0,
      "react/no-unescaped-entities": 0,
      "react/prop-types": 0,
      "space-before-function-paren": 0,
      "reactotron/no-tron-in-production": "error"
    }
  }
// error-line-end
// success-line-start
"eslintConfig": {
  extends: ["@monorepo-example/eslint-config"],
}
// success-line-end
```

:::warning

In this guide, we use `@monorepo-example` as the placeholder name for the monorepo. Be sure to replace it with your actual monorepo name if it’s different.

:::

By completing this step, you now have an app (and maybe more in the future) that benefits from a shared ESLint configuration. Great work!

## Step 7: Create a shared UI components package

> Now that we are familiarized with the creation of shared package, let's go ahead and create another one.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
Now that we are familiar with the creation of a shared package, let's create another one.
```

1. Navigate to the packages folder:

```shell
cd ..
cd ..
cd packages
```

2. Create the package directory:

```shell
mkdir ui-components
cd ui-components
```

3. Initialize the package:

Initialize the package with a `package.json` file.

```shell
yarn init -y
```

4. Install dependencies:

Install any necessary dependencies, such as React, React Native, and TypeScript, which will be used across both platforms.

```shell
yarn add react react-native typescript --peer
yarn add @types/react @types/react-native --dev
```

4. Create the `tsconfig.json` file:

`packages/ui-components/tsconfig.json`

```json
// success-line-start
{
  "compilerOptions": {
    "target": "es5",
    "lib": ["dom", "es2017"],
    "module": "commonjs",
    "jsx": "react",
    "declaration": true,
    "outDir": "dist",
    "strict": true,
    "esModuleInterop": true,
    "skipLibCheck": true
  },
  "include": ["src"],
  "exclude": ["node_modules"]
}
 // success-line-end
 ```

5.  Now let's create the badge component:

Inside the `packages/ui-components` directory, create a `src` folder and add your Badge component.

```shell
mkdir src
touch src/Badge.tsx
```

6. Build the badge component:

> `packages/ui-component/src/Badge.tsx`

Reviewer: ```suggestion
`packages/ui-components/src/Badge.tsx`
```

```tsx
// success-line-start
import React, { FC } from "react"
import { View, Text, StyleSheet, ViewStyle, TextStyle } from "react-native"

interface BadgeProps {
  label: string
  color?: string
  backgroundColor?: string
  style?: ViewStyle
  textStyle?: TextStyle
}

export const Badge: FC<BadgeProps> = ({ label, color = "white", backgroundColor = "red", style, textStyle }) => {
  return (
    <View style={[styles.badge, { backgroundColor }, style]}>
      <Text style={[styles.text, { color }, textStyle]}>{label}</Text>
    </View>
  )
}

const styles = StyleSheet.create({
  badge: {
    paddingHorizontal: 8,
    paddingVertical: 4,
    borderRadius: 12,
    alignSelf: "flex-start",
  } satisfies ViewStyle,
  text: {
    fontSize: 12,
    fontWeight: "bold",
  } satisfies TextStyle,
})
// success-line-end
```

A `Badge` component, as defined above, is a simple UI element designed to display a label with customizable colors. This makes it versatile and useful in various parts of your app, like showing notification counts, statuses, or category labels.

7. Export the badge component:

Ensure that your component is exported in the package's main entry file.

> `packages/ui-component/src/index.ts`

Reviewer: ```suggestion
`packages/ui-components/src/index.ts`
```

```ts
// success-line-start
export * from "./Badge"
// success-line-end
```

8. Compile the package:

Compile your TypeScript code to ensure it's ready for consumption by other packages.

```shell
npx tsc
```

> Awesome! We have now a second package within our monorepo, and a UI component we can share across apps. Let's go ahead

Reviewer: ```suggestion
Awesome! We have now a second package within our monorepo and a UI component we can share across apps. Onward!
```
